worldcup:
	name=World Cup
	hidden=False
	description:
		As defending world champions, England's venture in world cup 
		is attracting a much keener public interest than the general election. 
	effects:
		london.immigration.mean+0.3

devaluation:
	name=Devaluation crisis
	hidden=False
	description:
		When Labour, led by Harold Wilson, took office in October 1964, it was immediately faced 
		with a deficit of 800 million pounds, which contributed to a series of sterling crises. 
		A possible solution was to devalue the pound against other currencies to make imports 
		more expensive (which meant more inflation), but exports cheaper, causing an increase.

		By the summer of 1966, the pressure on sterling was acute but Wilson was determined to 
		resist devaluation. To him the pound was a symbol of national status, of Britain's role 
		in the world as a key player. On 12 July 1966 the Cabinet rejected the devaluation option 
		and agreed to a tough package of deflation and austerity instead.
	effects:
		labour.power*0.91666 #reduces from 600 to 550
		labour.powerofright-0.1
		labour.middleclass.appeal-0.2

degaulleveto:
	name=Emphatic 'No' by de Gaulle
	hidden=False
	description:
		President Charles de Gaulle of France has once again stated his opposition to British membership
		within the European Economic Community, stating that membership within EEC was incompatible
		with the economy of Britain. This is the second time in a decade when the membership was refused, 
		as the conservative attempt to join EEC was also blocked by the president in 1963.

		This is a major setback for the Labour government, and the enthusiasm for the membership has also 
		declined throughout the country.

	effects:
		labour.power*0.9090 #reduces from 550 to 500
		labour.powerofright-0.1
		nationwide.europe.mean-0.5
		nationwide.europe.variance+0.25

degaulleresigns:
	name=The General resigns
	hidden=False
	description:
		President Charles de Gaulle of France has today been forced to resign after mass demonstrations and
		strikes, as majority of the country saw him	as too old, too self-centered, too authoritarian, too 
		conservative, and too anti-American.

		Regardless, this once again open up the possibility for Britain to join the European Economic 
		Community as the successor might be less inclined to veto the membership.

	effects:
		labour.powerofright+0.05
		nationwide.europe.mean+0.25
		nationwide.europe.variance-0.05

democraticpartyfounded:
	name=Founding of Democratic Party
	hidden=False
	description:
		Member of Parliament for Pembrokeshire Desmond Donnely has defected from the labour party, calling 
		for the prime minister's resignation. In some respects the party's policy is to the right of the
		Conservatives, advocating the abolition of the welfare state, sweeping changes to the taxation system, 
		and the return of national service.

		The party is pretty unlikely to win any seats with the possible exception in Pembrokeshire. The 
		constituency has traditionally been a labour seat, held by Donnely since 1950. However the struggle 
		between labour and democratic parties' candidates may lead to conservative victory.
	effects:
		democratic.power=1
		pembrokeshire=3
		labour.wales.controlledseats-1
		democratic.wales.controlledseats+1
		labour.wales.guaranteedseats-1
		democratic.wales.guaranteedseats+1